README.md, before:

# HTML Minifier Next (HTMLMinifier)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/html-minifier-next.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/html-minifier-next)
<!-- [![Build Status](https://github.com/j9t/html-minifier-next/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/j9t/html-minifier-next/actions?workflow=CI) -->

(This project is based on [Terser’s html-minifier-terser](https://github.com/terser/html-minifier-terser), which in turn is based on [Juriy Zaytsev’s html-minifier](https://github.com/kangax/html-minifier). It was set up because as of May 2025, both html-minifier-terser and html-minifier seem unmaintained. **This project is currently under test.** If it seems maintainable to me, [Jens](https://meiert.com/), even without community support, the project will be updated and documented further. The following documentation largely matches the original project.)

HTMLMinifier is a highly **configurable, well-tested, JavaScript-based HTML minifier**.

## Installation

From npm for use as a command line app:

```shell
npm i -g html-minifier-next
```

From npm for programmatic use:

```shell
npm i html-minifier-next
```

## Usage

**Note** that almost all options are disabled by default. Experiment and find what works best for you and your project.

For command line usage please see `html-minifier-next --help` for a list of available options.

**Sample command line:**

```bash
html-minifier-next --collapse-whitespace --remove-comments --minify-js true
```

### Node.js

```js
const { minify } = require('html-minifier-next');

const result = await minify('<p title="blah" id="moo">foo</p>', {
  removeAttributeQuotes: true,
});
result; // '<p title=blah id=moo>foo</p>'
```

See [the origina blog post](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier) for details of [how it works](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#how_it_works), [description of each option](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#options), [testing results](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#field_testing), and [conclusions](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#cost_and_benefits).

For lint-like capabilities take a look at [HTMLLint](https://github.com/kangax/html-lint).

## Minification comparison

How does HTMLMinifier compare to other solutions — [HTML Minifier from Will Peavy](http://www.willpeavy.com/minifier/) (1st result in [Google search for “html minifier”](https://www.google.com/#q=html+minifier)) as well as [htmlcompressor.com](http://htmlcompressor.com) and [minimize](https://github.com/Swaagie/minimize)?

| Site | Original size (KB) | HTMLMinifier | minimize | htmlcompressor.com |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/) | 695 | **625** | 682 | n/a |
| [BBC](https://www.bbc.co.uk/) | 655 | **602** | 649 | n/a |
| [ECMAScript](https://tc39.es/ecma262/) | 7197 | **6353** | 6573 | n/a |
| [EFF](https://www.eff.org/) | 60 | **51** | 54 | n/a |
| [Eloquent JavaScript](https://eloquentjavascript.net/) | 6 | **5** | 6 | n/a |
| [FAZ](https://www.faz.net/aktuell/) | 1793 | **1667** | 1705 | n/a |
| [Frontend Dogma](https://frontenddogma.com/) | 116 | **112** | 125 | n/a |
| [Google](https://www.google.com/) | 51 | **46** | 51 | n/a |
| [HTMLMinifier](https://github.com/kangax/html-minifier) | 366 | **245** | 343 | n/a |
| [Mastodon](https://mastodon.social/explore) | 37 | **27** | 36 | n/a |
| [NBC](https://www.nbc.com/) | 1022 | **932** | 1010 | n/a |
| [New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/) | 951 | **809** | 939 | n/a |
| [United Nations](https://www.un.org/) | 9 | **7** | 8 | n/a |
| [W3C](https://www.w3.org/) | 51 | **36** | 42 | n/a |
| [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page) | 114 | **100** | 107 | n/a |

## Options quick reference

Most of the options are disabled by default.

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `caseSensitive` | Treat attributes in case sensitive manner (useful for custom HTML tags) | `false` |
| `collapseBooleanAttributes` | [Omit attribute values from boolean attributes](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#collapse_boolean_attributes) | `false` |
| `customFragmentQuantifierLimit` | Set maximum quantifier limit for custom fragments to prevent ReDoS attacks | `200` |
| `collapseInlineTagWhitespace` | Don’t leave any spaces between `display:inline;` elements when collapsing. Must be used in conjunction with `collapseWhitespace=true` | `false` |
| `collapseWhitespace` | [Collapse white space that contributes to text nodes in a document tree](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#collapse_whitespace) | `false` |
| `conservativeCollapse` | Always collapse to 1 space (never remove it entirely). Must be used in conjunction with `collapseWhitespace=true` | `false` |
| `continueOnParseError` | [Handle parse errors](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/parsing.html#parse-errors) instead of aborting. | `false` |
| `customAttrAssign` | Arrays of regex’es that allow to support custom attribute assign expressions (e.g. `'<div flex?="{{mode != cover}}"></div>'`) | `[ ]` |
| `customAttrCollapse` | Regex that specifies custom attribute to strip newlines from (e.g. `/ng-class/`) | |
| `customAttrSurround` | Arrays of regexes that allow to support custom attribute surround expressions (e.g. `<input {{#if value}}checked="checked"{{/if}}>`) | `[ ]` |
| `customEventAttributes` | Arrays of regexes that allow to support custom event attributes for `minifyJS` (e.g. `ng-click`) | `[ /^on[a-z]{3,}$/ ]` |
| `decodeEntities` | Use direct Unicode characters whenever possible | `false` |
| `html5` | Parse input according to HTML5 specifications | `true` |
| `ignoreCustomComments` | Array of regexes that allow to ignore certain comments, when matched | `[ /^!/, /^\s*#/ ]` |
| `ignoreCustomFragments` | Array of regexes that allow to ignore certain fragments, when matched (e.g. `<?php ... ?>`, `{{ ... }}`, etc.) | `[ /<%[\s\S]*?%>/, /<\?[\s\S]*?\?>/ ]` |
| `includeAutoGeneratedTags` | Insert tags generated by HTML parser | `true` |
| `keepClosingSlash` | Keep the trailing slash on singleton elements | `false` |
| `maxInputLength` | Maximum input length to prevent ReDoS attacks (disabled by default) | `undefined` |
| `maxLineLength` | Specify a maximum line length. Compressed output will be split by newlines at valid HTML split-points |
| `minifyCSS` | Minify CSS in style elements and style attributes (uses [clean-css](https://github.com/jakubpawlowicz/clean-css)) | `false` (could be `true`, `Object`, `Function(text, type)`) |
| `minifyJS` | Minify JavaScript in script elements and event attributes (uses [Terser](https://github.com/terser/terser)) | `false` (could be `true`, `Object`, `Function(text, inline)`) |
| `minifyURLs` | Minify URLs in various attributes (uses [relateurl](https://github.com/stevenvachon/relateurl)) | `false` (could be `String`, `Object`, `Function(text)`) |
| `noNewlinesBeforeTagClose` | Never add a newline before a tag that closes an element | `false` |
| `preserveLineBreaks` | Always collapse to 1 line break (never remove it entirely) when whitespace between tags include a line break. Must be used in conjunction with `collapseWhitespace=true` | `false` |
| `preventAttributesEscaping` | Prevents the escaping of the values of attributes | `false` |
| `processConditionalComments` | Process contents of conditional comments through minifier | `false` |
| `processScripts` | Array of strings corresponding to types of script elements to process through minifier (e.g. `text/ng-template`, `text/x-handlebars-template`, etc.) | `[ ]` |
| `quoteCharacter` | Type of quote to use for attribute values (“'” or “"”) | |
| `removeAttributeQuotes` | [Remove quotes around attributes when possible](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#remove_attribute_quotes) | `false` |
| `removeComments` | [Strip HTML comments](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#remove_comments) | `false` |
| `removeEmptyAttributes` | [Remove all attributes with whitespace-only values](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#remove_empty_or_blank_attributes) | `false` (could be `true`, `Function(attrName, tag)`) |
| `removeEmptyElements` | [Remove all elements with empty contents](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#remove_empty_elements) | `false` |
| `removeOptionalTags` | [Remove optional tags](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#remove_optional_tags) | `false` |
| `removeRedundantAttributes` | [Remove attributes when value matches default.](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#remove_redundant_attributes) | `false` |
| `removeScriptTypeAttributes` | Remove `type="text/javascript"` from `script` tags. Other `type` attribute values are left intact | `false` |
| `removeStyleLinkTypeAttributes`| Remove `type="text/css"` from `style` and `link` tags. Other `type` attribute values are left intact | `false` |
| `removeTagWhitespace` | Remove space between attributes whenever possible. **Note that this will result in invalid HTML!** | `false` |
| `sortAttributes` | [Sort attributes by frequency](#sorting-attributes--style-classes) | `false` |
| `sortClassName` | [Sort style classes by frequency](#sorting-attributes--style-classes) | `false` |
| `trimCustomFragments` | Trim white space around `ignoreCustomFragments`. | `false` |
| `useShortDoctype` | [Replaces the `doctype` with the short (HTML5) doctype](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#use_short_doctype) | `false` |

### Sorting attributes / style classes

Minifier options like `sortAttributes` and `sortClassName` won’t impact the plain-text size of the output. However, they form long repetitive chains of characters that should improve compression ratio of gzip used in HTTP compression.

## Special cases

### Ignoring chunks of markup

If you have chunks of markup you would like preserved, you can wrap them `<!-- htmlmin:ignore -->`.

### Minifying JSON-LD

You can minify script tags with JSON-LD by setting the option `{ processScripts: ['application/ld+json'] }`. Note that this minification is very rudimentary, it is mainly useful for removing newlines and excessive whitespace. 

### Preserving SVG tags

SVG tags are automatically recognized, and when they are minified, both case-sensitivity and closing-slashes are preserved, regardless of the minification settings used for the rest of the file.

### Working with invalid markup

HTMLMinifier **can’t work with invalid or partial chunks of markup**. This is because it parses markup into a tree structure, then modifies it (removing anything that was specified for removal, ignoring anything that was specified to be ignored, etc.), then it creates a markup out of that tree and returns it.

Input markup (e.g. `<p id="">foo`)

↓

Internal representation of markup in a form of tree (e.g. `{ tag: "p", attr: "id", children: ["foo"] }`)

↓

Transformation of internal representation (e.g. removal of `id` attribute)

↓

Output of resulting markup (e.g. `<p>foo</p>`)

HTMLMinifier can’t know that original markup was only half of the tree; it does its best to try to parse it as a full tree and it loses information about tree being malformed or partial in the beginning. As a result, it can’t create a partial/malformed tree at the time of the output.

## Security

### ReDoS protection

This minifier includes protection against regular expression denial of service (ReDoS) attacks:

* Custom fragment quantifier limits: The `customFragmentQuantifierLimit` option (default: 200) prevents exponential backtracking by replacing unlimited quantifiers (`*`, `+`) with bounded ones in regular expressions.

* Input length limits: The `maxInputLength` option allows you to set a maximum input size to prevent processing of excessively large inputs that could cause performance issues.

* Enhanced pattern detection: The minifier detects and warns about various ReDoS-prone patterns including nested quantifiers, alternation with quantifiers, and multiple unlimited quantifiers.

**Important:** When using custom `ignoreCustomFragments`, ensure your regular expressions don’t contain unlimited quantifiers (`*`, `+`) without bounds, as these can lead to ReDoS vulnerabilities.

(Further improvements are needed. Contributions welcome.)

#### Custom fragment examples

**Safe patterns** (recommended):

```javascript
ignoreCustomFragments: [
  /<%[\s\S]{0,1000}?%>/,         // JSP/ASP with explicit bounds
  /<\?php[\s\S]{0,5000}?\?>/,    // PHP with bounds
  /\{\{[^}]{0,500}\}\}/          // Handlebars without nested braces
]
```

**Potentially unsafe patterns** (will trigger warnings):

```javascript
ignoreCustomFragments: [
  /<%[\s\S]*?%>/,                // Unlimited quantifiers
  /<!--[\s\S]*?-->/,             // Could cause issues with very long comments
  /\{\{.*?\}\}/,                 // Nested unlimited quantifiers
  /(script|style)[\s\S]*?/       // Multiple unlimited quantifiers
]
```

**Template engine configurations:**

```javascript
// Handlebars/Mustache
ignoreCustomFragments: [/\{\{[\s\S]{0,1000}?\}\}/]

// Liquid (Jekyll)
ignoreCustomFragments: [/\{%[\s\S]{0,500}?%\}/, /\{\{[\s\S]{0,500}?\}\}/]

// Angular
ignoreCustomFragments: [/\{\{[\s\S]{0,500}?\}\}/]

// Vue.js
ignoreCustomFragments: [/\{\{[\s\S]{0,500}?\}\}/]
```

**Important:** When using custom `ignoreCustomFragments`, the minifier automatically applies bounded quantifiers to prevent ReDoS attacks, but you can also write safer patterns yourself using explicit bounds.

## Running benchmarks

Benchmarks for minified HTML:

```shell
cd benchmarks
npm install
npm run benchmark
```

## Running local server

```shell
npm run serve
```

## Acknowledgements

With many thanks to all the previous authors of HTML Minifier, especially [Juriy Zaytsev](https://github.com/kangax), and to everyone who helped make this new edition better, like [Daniel Ruf](https://github.com/DanielRuf).

Commit message:

feat: update READMEs with refined descriptions and examples
Improved wording and structure in project descriptions for clarity, and added more detailed examples of usage. These changes enhance documentation quality and provide additional context for users.

(This commit message was AI-generated.)

Signed-off-by: Jens Oliver Meiert <jens@meiert.com>

README.md, after:

# HTML Minifier Next (HTMLMinifier)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/html-minifier-next.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/html-minifier-next)
<!-- [![Build Status](https://github.com/j9t/html-minifier-next/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/j9t/html-minifier-next/actions?workflow=CI) -->

(This project has been based on [Terser’s html-minifier-terser](https://github.com/terser/html-minifier-terser), which in turn had been based on [Juriy Zaytsev’s html-minifier](https://github.com/kangax/html-minifier). It was set up because as of 2025, both html-minifier-terser and html-minifier have been unmaintained for some time. As the project seems maintainable to me [[Jens](https://meiert.com/)]—even more so with community support—, it will be updated and documented further in this place. For the time being, the following documentation largely matches the original project.)

HTMLMinifier is a highly **configurable, well-tested, JavaScript-based HTML minifier**.

## Installation

From npm for use as a command line app:

```shell
npm i -g html-minifier-next
```

From npm for programmatic use:

```shell
npm i html-minifier-next
```

## Usage

**Note** that almost all options are disabled by default. Experiment and find what works best for you and your project.

For command line usage please see `html-minifier-next --help` for a list of available options.

**Sample command line:**

```bash
html-minifier-next --collapse-whitespace --remove-comments --minify-js true --input-dir=. --output-dir=example
```

### Node.js

```js
const { minify } = require('html-minifier-next');

const result = await minify('<p title="blah" id="moo">foo</p>', {
  removeAttributeQuotes: true,
});
result; // '<p title=blah id=moo>foo</p>'
```

See [the original blog post](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier) for details of [how it works](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#how_it_works), [description of each option](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#options), [testing results](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#field_testing), and [conclusions](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#cost_and_benefits).

For lint-like capabilities take a look at [HTMLLint](https://github.com/kangax/html-lint).

## Minification comparison

How does HTMLMinifier compare to other solutions—[HTML Minifier from Will Peavy](http://www.willpeavy.com/minifier/) (1st result in [Google search for “html minifier”](https://www.google.com/#q=html+minifier)) as well as [htmlcompressor.com](http://htmlcompressor.com) and [minimize](https://github.com/Swaagie/minimize)?

| Site | Original size (KB) | HTMLMinifier | minimize | htmlcompressor.com |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/) | 695 | **625** | 682 | n/a |
| [BBC](https://www.bbc.co.uk/) | 655 | **602** | 649 | n/a |
| [ECMAScript](https://tc39.es/ecma262/) | 7197 | **6353** | 6573 | n/a |
| [EFF](https://www.eff.org/) | 60 | **51** | 54 | n/a |
| [Eloquent JavaScript](https://eloquentjavascript.net/) | 6 | **5** | 6 | n/a |
| [FAZ](https://www.faz.net/aktuell/) | 1793 | **1667** | 1705 | n/a |
| [Frontend Dogma](https://frontenddogma.com/) | 116 | **112** | 125 | n/a |
| [Google](https://www.google.com/) | 51 | **46** | 51 | n/a |
| [HTMLMinifier](https://github.com/kangax/html-minifier) | 366 | **245** | 343 | n/a |
| [Mastodon](https://mastodon.social/explore) | 37 | **27** | 36 | n/a |
| [NBC](https://www.nbc.com/) | 1022 | **932** | 1010 | n/a |
| [New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/) | 951 | **809** | 939 | n/a |
| [United Nations](https://www.un.org/) | 9 | **7** | 8 | n/a |
| [W3C](https://www.w3.org/) | 51 | **36** | 42 | n/a |
| [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page) | 114 | **100** | 107 | n/a |

## Options quick reference

Most of the options are disabled by default.

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `caseSensitive` | Treat attributes in case sensitive manner (useful for custom HTML tags) | `false` |
| `collapseBooleanAttributes` | [Omit attribute values from boolean attributes](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#collapse_boolean_attributes) | `false` |
| `customFragmentQuantifierLimit` | Set maximum quantifier limit for custom fragments to prevent ReDoS attacks | `200` |
| `collapseInlineTagWhitespace` | Don’t leave any spaces between `display:inline;` elements when collapsing. Must be used in conjunction with `collapseWhitespace=true` | `false` |
| `collapseWhitespace` | [Collapse white space that contributes to text nodes in a document tree](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#collapse_whitespace) | `false` |
| `conservativeCollapse` | Always collapse to 1 space (never remove it entirely). Must be used in conjunction with `collapseWhitespace=true` | `false` |
| `continueOnParseError` | [Handle parse errors](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/parsing.html#parse-errors) instead of aborting. | `false` |
| `customAttrAssign` | Arrays of regex’es that allow to support custom attribute assign expressions (e.g. `'<div flex?="{{mode != cover}}"></div>'`) | `[ ]` |
| `customAttrCollapse` | Regex that specifies custom attribute to strip newlines from (e.g. `/ng-class/`) | |
| `customAttrSurround` | Arrays of regexes that allow to support custom attribute surround expressions (e.g. `<input {{#if value}}checked="checked"{{/if}}>`) | `[ ]` |
| `customEventAttributes` | Arrays of regexes that allow to support custom event attributes for `minifyJS` (e.g. `ng-click`) | `[ /^on[a-z]{3,}$/ ]` |
| `decodeEntities` | Use direct Unicode characters whenever possible | `false` |
| `html5` | Parse input according to HTML5 specifications | `true` |
| `ignoreCustomComments` | Array of regexes that allow to ignore certain comments, when matched | `[ /^!/, /^\s*#/ ]` |
| `ignoreCustomFragments` | Array of regexes that allow to ignore certain fragments, when matched (e.g. `<?php ... ?>`, `{{ ... }}`, etc.) | `[ /<%[\s\S]*?%>/, /<\?[\s\S]*?\?>/ ]` |
| `includeAutoGeneratedTags` | Insert tags generated by HTML parser | `true` |
| `keepClosingSlash` | Keep the trailing slash on singleton elements | `false` |
| `maxInputLength` | Maximum input length to prevent ReDoS attacks (disabled by default) | `undefined` |
| `maxLineLength` | Specify a maximum line length. Compressed output will be split by newlines at valid HTML split-points |
| `minifyCSS` | Minify CSS in style elements and style attributes (uses [clean-css](https://github.com/jakubpawlowicz/clean-css)) | `false` (could be `true`, `Object`, `Function(text, type)`) |
| `minifyJS` | Minify JavaScript in script elements and event attributes (uses [Terser](https://github.com/terser/terser)) | `false` (could be `true`, `Object`, `Function(text, inline)`) |
| `minifyURLs` | Minify URLs in various attributes (uses [relateurl](https://github.com/stevenvachon/relateurl)) | `false` (could be `String`, `Object`, `Function(text)`) |
| `noNewlinesBeforeTagClose` | Never add a newline before a tag that closes an element | `false` |
| `preserveLineBreaks` | Always collapse to 1 line break (never remove it entirely) when whitespace between tags include a line break. Must be used in conjunction with `collapseWhitespace=true` | `false` |
| `preventAttributesEscaping` | Prevents the escaping of the values of attributes | `false` |
| `processConditionalComments` | Process contents of conditional comments through minifier | `false` |
| `processScripts` | Array of strings corresponding to types of script elements to process through minifier (e.g. `text/ng-template`, `text/x-handlebars-template`, etc.) | `[ ]` |
| `quoteCharacter` | Type of quote to use for attribute values (“'” or “"”) | |
| `removeAttributeQuotes` | [Remove quotes around attributes when possible](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#remove_attribute_quotes) | `false` |
| `removeComments` | [Strip HTML comments](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#remove_comments) | `false` |
| `removeEmptyAttributes` | [Remove all attributes with whitespace-only values](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#remove_empty_or_blank_attributes) | `false` (could be `true`, `Function(attrName, tag)`) |
| `removeEmptyElements` | [Remove all elements with empty contents](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#remove_empty_elements) | `false` |
| `removeOptionalTags` | [Remove optional tags](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#remove_optional_tags) | `false` |
| `removeRedundantAttributes` | [Remove attributes when value matches default.](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#remove_redundant_attributes) | `false` |
| `removeScriptTypeAttributes` | Remove `type="text/javascript"` from `script` tags. Other `type` attribute values are left intact | `false` |
| `removeStyleLinkTypeAttributes`| Remove `type="text/css"` from `style` and `link` tags. Other `type` attribute values are left intact | `false` |
| `removeTagWhitespace` | Remove space between attributes whenever possible. **Note that this will result in invalid HTML!** | `false` |
| `sortAttributes` | [Sort attributes by frequency](#sorting-attributes--style-classes) | `false` |
| `sortClassName` | [Sort style classes by frequency](#sorting-attributes--style-classes) | `false` |
| `trimCustomFragments` | Trim white space around `ignoreCustomFragments`. | `false` |
| `useShortDoctype` | [Replaces the `doctype` with the short (HTML5) doctype](http://perfectionkills.com/experimenting-with-html-minifier#use_short_doctype) | `false` |

### Sorting attributes / style classes

Minifier options like `sortAttributes` and `sortClassName` won’t impact the plain-text size of the output. However, they form long repetitive chains of characters that should improve compression ratio of gzip used in HTTP compression.

## Special cases

### Ignoring chunks of markup

If you have chunks of markup you would like preserved, you can wrap them `<!-- htmlmin:ignore -->`.

### Minifying JSON-LD

You can minify script tags with JSON-LD by setting the option `{ processScripts: ['application/ld+json'] }`. Note that this minification is very rudimentary, it is mainly useful for removing newlines and excessive whitespace. 

### Preserving SVG tags

SVG tags are automatically recognized, and when they are minified, both case-sensitivity and closing-slashes are preserved, regardless of the minification settings used for the rest of the file.

### Working with invalid markup

HTMLMinifier **can’t work with invalid or partial chunks of markup**. This is because it parses markup into a tree structure, then modifies it (removing anything that was specified for removal, ignoring anything that was specified to be ignored, etc.), then it creates a markup out of that tree and returns it.

Input markup (e.g. `<p id="">foo`)

↓

Internal representation of markup in a form of tree (e.g. `{ tag: "p", attr: "id", children: ["foo"] }`)

↓

Transformation of internal representation (e.g. removal of `id` attribute)

↓

Output of resulting markup (e.g. `<p>foo</p>`)

HTMLMinifier can’t know that original markup was only half of the tree; it does its best to try to parse it as a full tree and it loses information about tree being malformed or partial in the beginning. As a result, it can’t create a partial/malformed tree at the time of the output.

## Security

### ReDoS protection

This minifier includes protection against regular expression denial of service (ReDoS) attacks:

* Custom fragment quantifier limits: The `customFragmentQuantifierLimit` option (default: 200) prevents exponential backtracking by replacing unlimited quantifiers (`*`, `+`) with bounded ones in regular expressions.

* Input length limits: The `maxInputLength` option allows you to set a maximum input size to prevent processing of excessively large inputs that could cause performance issues.

* Enhanced pattern detection: The minifier detects and warns about various ReDoS-prone patterns including nested quantifiers, alternation with quantifiers, and multiple unlimited quantifiers.

**Important:** When using custom `ignoreCustomFragments`, ensure your regular expressions don’t contain unlimited quantifiers (`*`, `+`) without bounds, as these can lead to ReDoS vulnerabilities.

(Further improvements are needed. Contributions welcome.)

#### Custom fragment examples

**Safe patterns** (recommended):

```javascript
ignoreCustomFragments: [
  /<%[\s\S]{0,1000}?%>/,         // JSP/ASP with explicit bounds
  /<\?php[\s\S]{0,5000}?\?>/,    // PHP with bounds
  /\{\{[^}]{0,500}\}\}/          // Handlebars without nested braces
]
```

**Potentially unsafe patterns** (will trigger warnings):

```javascript
ignoreCustomFragments: [
  /<%[\s\S]*?%>/,                // Unlimited quantifiers
  /<!--[\s\S]*?-->/,             // Could cause issues with very long comments
  /\{\{.*?\}\}/,                 // Nested unlimited quantifiers
  /(script|style)[\s\S]*?/       // Multiple unlimited quantifiers
]
```

**Template engine configurations:**

```javascript
// Handlebars/Mustache
ignoreCustomFragments: [/\{\{[\s\S]{0,1000}?\}\}/]

// Liquid (Jekyll)
ignoreCustomFragments: [/\{%[\s\S]{0,500}?%\}/, /\{\{[\s\S]{0,500}?\}\}/]

// Angular
ignoreCustomFragments: [/\{\{[\s\S]{0,500}?\}\}/]

// Vue.js
ignoreCustomFragments: [/\{\{[\s\S]{0,500}?\}\}/]
```

**Important:** When using custom `ignoreCustomFragments`, the minifier automatically applies bounded quantifiers to prevent ReDoS attacks, but you can also write safer patterns yourself using explicit bounds.

## Running benchmarks

Benchmarks for minified HTML:

```shell
cd benchmarks
npm install
npm run benchmark
```

## Running local server

```shell
npm run serve
```

## Acknowledgements

With many thanks to all the previous authors of HTML Minifier, especially [Juriy Zaytsev](https://github.com/kangax), and to everyone who helped make this new edition better, like [Daniel Ruf](https://github.com/DanielRuf).
